docs/AzureContainerAppsDeployment-GitHubActions.md, before:

# Deploy to Azure Container Apps via GitHub Actions (CI/CD)

This guide adds a GitHub Actions workflow so every push to `main` automatically:

- Builds 3 Docker images (`web`, `api`, `market-data`)
- Pushes them to Azure Container Registry (ACR)
- Deploys them to Azure Container Apps (ACA)

To avoid historical buildup and extra ACR storage cost, the workflow keeps rollback capability but retains only the last 5 versions:

- Images: pushes tags using the commit SHA and deletes older images, keeping 5 per repository.
- Revisions: uses multiple revisions mode and keeps 4 inactive (5 total including the active revision).

It does not replace the existing manual Azure CLI guide (`docs/AzureContainerAppsDeployment.md`). Use that doc if you prefer deploying from your laptop; use this doc if you want automatic redeploys after each commit.

## Recommended region for Sydney

Use `australiaeast` (Sydney) to reduce latency.

Alternative: `australiasoutheast` (Melbourne) if you specifically want that region.

## What will be deployed

This workflow deploys the same 3 runtime services you run in `docker-compose.override.yml`:

- `wealthtracker-web` (React build served by Nginx) - public ingress, port 8080
- `wealthtracker-api` (ASP.NET Core) - public ingress, port 5141
- `wealthtracker-market-data` (FastAPI) - internal ingress only, port 8001

PostgreSQL and Redis are NOT deployed to Azure in this workflow. It assumes you use external services (Neon/Upstash, or Azure managed equivalents) and pass the connection details as GitHub secrets.

## Prerequisites (one-time)

You need:

- An Azure subscription
- A PostgreSQL connection string (for the API)
- A Redis URL (for the market-data cache)
- Google OAuth credentials (Client ID + Client Secret)

### Important: register Azure Resource Providers (one-time per subscription)

Your workflow uses a GitHub Service Principal that is typically scoped to a Resource Group. That scope does not allow registering subscription-level resource providers.

Before running the workflow the first time, register these providers once (run with your own Azure user that has subscription permissions):

```powershell
az login
az account show

az provider register --namespace Microsoft.App --wait
az provider register --namespace Microsoft.OperationalInsights --wait
az provider register --namespace Microsoft.ContainerRegistry --wait
```

Portal alternative:

- Azure Portal -> Subscriptions -> (your subscription) -> Resource providers -> search and Register the same namespaces.

## Step 1 - Configure the workflow file

This repo includes:

- `.github/workflows/cd.yml`

Open that file and edit the `env:` block at the top:

- `AZURE_LOCATION`: Sydney example: `australiaeast`
- `AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP`: example `wealthtracker-rg`
- `AZURE_CONTAINERAPPS_ENV`: example `wealthtracker-env`
- `AZURE_ACR_NAME`: must be globally unique and alphanumeric only (no hyphens)
  - Example: `wealthtrackeracr7392`

Tip: if your first run fails with "registry name is not available", change `AZURE_ACR_NAME` and rerun.

## Step 2 - Create Azure credentials for GitHub Actions

GitHub Actions must authenticate to Azure. A straightforward approach is an Azure Service Principal stored as a GitHub secret named `AZURE_CREDENTIALS`.

Run this locally (PowerShell) after `az login`:

```powershell
# Choose region (Sydney)
$RG="wealthtracker-rg"
$LOC="australiaeast"
az group create -n $RG -l $LOC

# Create a Service Principal scoped to the resource group.
# This prints a JSON payload that GitHub Actions can use.
$SUB_ID = (az account show --query id -o tsv)
$SCOPE = "/subscriptions/$SUB_ID/resourceGroups/$RG"

az ad sp create-for-rbac `
  --name "wealthtracker-github-actions" `
  --role "Contributor" `
  --scopes $SCOPE `
  --sdk-auth
```

What this does:

- Creates a "robot identity" (Service Principal) for automation.
- Grants it Contributor access to your Resource Group so the workflow can create/update ACR and Container Apps.
- Outputs a JSON blob that the `azure/login` action can consume.

## Step 3 - Add GitHub repository secrets

In your GitHub repo:

`Settings` -> `Secrets and variables` -> `Actions` -> `New repository secret`

Add these secrets (names must match exactly):

### Azure auth

- `AZURE_CREDENTIALS`: paste the full JSON output from Step 2.

### Database (API)

- `NEON_CONNECTION_STRING`: your PostgreSQL connection string.

### Redis (market-data cache)

- `UPSTASH_REDIS_URL`: example `rediss://default:...@....upstash.io:6379`

Optional (only if you use Upstash REST mode):

- `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL`
- `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN`

Optional:

- `CACHE_TTL_SECONDS` (default is 300)

### Google OAuth

- `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`
- `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`

### JWT signing keys (required)

The backend requires an RSA key pair for JWT signing.

Important:

- These secrets must be the **PEM file contents**, not a file path.
  - Good: starts with `-----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----` / `-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----`
  - Bad: `/app/keys/public.pem`
- For GitHub secrets, store them as a single line using literal `\n` sequences (so YAML/env handling is reliable).

Generate keys:

```powershell
mkdir -Force .\\tmp-keys | Out-Null
cd .\\tmp-keys

openssl genpkey -algorithm RSA -out private.pem -pkeyopt rsa_keygen_bits:2048
openssl rsa -pubout -in private.pem -out public.pem
```

Convert PEM to a one-line string with `\n`:

```powershell
$private = Get-Content .\\private.pem -Raw
$public  = Get-Content .\\public.pem -Raw

$privateOneLine = ($private -replace \"`r?`n\", \"\\\\n\").Trim()
$publicOneLine  = ($public  -replace \"`r?`n\", \"\\\\n\").Trim()

$privateOneLine | Set-Clipboard
# Paste clipboard into GitHub secret JWT_PRIVATE_KEY_PEM

$publicOneLine | Set-Clipboard
# Paste clipboard into GitHub secret JWT_PUBLIC_KEY_PEM
```

Add secrets:

- `JWT_PRIVATE_KEY_PEM`
- `JWT_PUBLIC_KEY_PEM`

## Step 4 - Run the workflow

The workflow triggers on:

- Push to `main`
- Manual run: GitHub -> `Actions` -> `Deploy to Azure Container Apps` -> `Run workflow`

On first run it will:

1. Create/ensure Resource Group, ACR, and Container Apps Environment
2. Build and push images for:
   - `WealthTrackerServer/Dockerfile`
   - `WealthTrackerClient/Dockerfile`
   - `MarketDataService/Dockerfile`
3. Create (or update) the 3 Container Apps
4. Print final URLs at the end of the job logs:
   - `Web: https://<your-web-fqdn>`
   - `API: https://<your-api-fqdn>`

## Step 5 - Configure Google OAuth redirect URIs

After the first successful run you will have the web URL:

- `https://wealthtracker-web.<hash>.australiaeast.azurecontainerapps.io`

In Google Cloud Console -> Credentials -> your OAuth client, add:

Authorized JavaScript origins:

- `https://<YOUR_WEB_FQDN>`

Authorized redirect URIs:

- `https://<YOUR_WEB_FQDN>/auth/callback`

Why this step exists:

- Google will only redirect to URLs you explicitly allow.
- Your Container App URL exists only after the first deployment.

## Step 6 - Verify

Open the web UI:

- `https://<YOUR_WEB_FQDN>`

Optional API check:

```bash
curl -X POST "https://<YOUR_API_FQDN>/api/scanner/day-gainers" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"universeLimit":10,"limit":5}'
```

## Troubleshooting and debugging

This section captures the common failure modes we hit while getting this pipeline stable.

### (1) Provider registration / AuthorizationFailed

Symptom (GitHub Actions or local `az`):

- `AuthorizationFailed ... does not have authorization to perform action 'Microsoft.App/register/action'`

Cause:

- Provider registration is subscription-scoped. If your GitHub Service Principal is scoped only to a Resource Group (recommended), it cannot register providers.

Fix (run once with a subscription-level privileged account):

```powershell
az login
az provider register --namespace Microsoft.App --wait
az provider register --namespace Microsoft.OperationalInsights --wait
az provider register --namespace Microsoft.ContainerRegistry --wait
```

Check status:

```powershell
az provider show --namespace Microsoft.App --query registrationState -o tsv
```

### (2) `containerapp` extension preview warnings

Symptom:

- Warnings that `containerapp` is preview / no stable version.

Notes:

- This is expected today; ACA CLI support lives in the `containerapp` extension.
- The workflow installs/upgrades it with preview allowed.

### (3) `az containerapp update` argument errors (create vs update flags)

Symptoms:

- `ERROR: unrecognized arguments: --env-vars ...`
- `ERROR: unrecognized arguments: --environment ... --ingress ... --target-port ...`

Cause:

- `az containerapp create` and `az containerapp update` do not accept the same flags.

Rule of thumb:

- Use `--env-vars` with `az containerapp create`
- Use `--set-env-vars` with `az containerapp update`
- Flags like `--environment`, `--ingress`, `--target-port`, `--registry-server` belong to `create` (not `update`)

### (4) Revision suffix collision on reruns

Symptom:

- `template.revisionsuffix is invalid ... revision with suffix <xxx> already exists`

Cause:

- A revision suffix must be unique for that app. Re-running the workflow for the same commit SHA can collide if you force a fixed suffix every time.

Fix:

- Only set `--revision-suffix` on first-time `create`, and do not force it on `update` (current workflow behavior).

### Inspect revision status directly

```powershell
az containerapp revision list -g $RG -n $APP -o table
```

### Temporarily force a replica to exist (then stream logs)

```powershell
az containerapp update -g $RG -n $APP --min-replicas 1
az containerapp logs show -g $RG -n $APP --type system --follow --tail 300
```

### (5) API crashes: JWT PEM format error

Symptom (container log):

- `System.ArgumentException: No supported key formats were found ... ImportPem(...)`

Cause:

- `JWT_PUBLIC_KEY_PEM` / `JWT_PRIVATE_KEY_PEM` are not valid PEM content.
  - Common mistake: putting a file path like `/app/keys/public.pem` into the secret.
  - Another mistake: broken multi-line copying.

Fix:

- Store the actual PEM contents in GitHub secrets.
- Recommended: store them in one line with literal `\n` sequences (see Step 3).

### (6) API crashes during migrations: database TLS / connection string mismatch

Symptom (container log):

- Stack trace around `SslStream.AuthenticateAsClient(...)` / `NpgsqlConnector.NegotiateEncryption(...)`
- Crash happens at `db.Database.Migrate()` (because `MIGRATE_ON_STARTUP=1`)

Cause:

- The connection string is too strict for your runtime environment (for example `SSL Mode=VerifyFull` and/or `Channel Binding=Require`), or it’s not the correct Neon “pooled” host for server environments.

Recommended connection string shape for ACA:

- Prefer `SSL Mode=Require` (not `VerifyFull`)
- Remove `Channel Binding=Require` unless you know you need it

Example (shape only):

```
Host=<pooled-host>;Port=5432;Database=<db>;Username=<user>;Password=<pwd>;SSL Mode=Require;Trust Server Certificate=false
```

Emergency debugging tip:

- Set `MIGRATE_ON_STARTUP=0` temporarily so the API can start, then fix DB connectivity/migrations without crash loops.

### (7) Scanner endpoints sometimes slow / intermittent market-data call failures

Symptoms:

- First scanner call after some idle time is slow.
- Occasional stack traces around `HttpClient.SendAsync(...)` / `MarketDataClient.PostAsync(...)`, but later calls succeed.

Common causes:

- `wealthtracker-market-data` is set to scale-to-zero, so the first request may include cold start time.
- Yahoo Finance calls (via `yfinance`) can be slow, especially on cache misses.
- API-to-market-data timeout is too low (default is 15 seconds).

Recommended fixes:

- Increase API -> market-data timeout in Container Apps:
  - Set `MarketDataService__TimeoutSeconds=60` on `wealthtracker-api` (the GitHub Actions workflow sets this).
- Keep `CACHE_TTL_SECONDS=300` so most scans are served from Redis cache.
- If you want consistently low latency (higher cost), set `minReplicas=1` for `wealthtracker-market-data`.

### (8) Google OAuth redirect URI issues

Symptoms:

- Google login fails with redirect mismatch.

Causes:

- Redirect URIs in Google Cloud Console don’t match `https://<YOUR_WEB_FQDN>/auth/callback`.
- The workflow failed before the “Finalize URLs” step, so the placeholder redirect URI was not replaced.

Fix:

- After the first successful deploy, add:
  - Authorized origins: `https://<YOUR_WEB_FQDN>`
  - Redirect URI: `https://<YOUR_WEB_FQDN>/auth/callback`
- If the workflow previously failed mid-run, rerun it to ensure the final URLs are applied.

## Notes

- Web runtime config is injected at container start (Nginx template + `env.js`):
  - `WealthTrackerClient/docker-entrypoint.d/20-generate-env-js.sh`
- API talks to market-data via internal DNS:
  - `MarketDataService__BaseUrl=http://wealthtracker-market-data`

## References

- Microsoft Learn: GitHub Actions for Azure Container Apps
  - https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-apps/github-actions
- Marketplace action: Azure Container Apps Build and Deploy
  - https://github.com/marketplace/actions/azure-container-apps-build-and-deploy
- Existing manual guide
  - `docs/AzureContainerAppsDeployment.md`

Commit message:

Keep CI only triggering on the pull request.

docs/AzureContainerAppsDeployment-GitHubActions.md, after:

# Deploy to Azure Container Apps via GitHub Actions (CI/CD)

This guide adds a GitHub Actions workflow so every push to `main` automatically:

- Builds 3 Docker images (`web`, `api`, `market-data`)
- Pushes them to Azure Container Registry (ACR)
- Deploys them to Azure Container Apps (ACA)

To avoid historical buildup and extra ACR storage cost, the workflow keeps rollback capability but retains only the last 5 versions:

- Images: pushes tags using the commit SHA and deletes older images, keeping 5 per repository.
- Revisions: uses multiple revisions mode and keeps 4 inactive (5 total including the active revision).

It does not replace the existing manual Azure CLI guide (`docs/AzureContainerAppsDeployment.md`). Use that doc if you prefer deploying from your laptop; use this doc if you want automatic redeploys after each commit.

## Recommended region for Sydney

Use `australiaeast` (Sydney) to reduce latency.

Alternative: `australiasoutheast` (Melbourne) if you specifically want that region.

## What will be deployed

This workflow deploys the same 3 runtime services you run in `docker-compose.override.yml`:

- `wealthtracker-web` (React build served by Nginx) - public ingress, port 8080
- `wealthtracker-api` (ASP.NET Core) - public ingress, port 5141
- `wealthtracker-market-data` (FastAPI) - internal ingress only, port 8001

PostgreSQL and Redis are NOT deployed to Azure in this workflow. It assumes you use external services (Neon/Upstash, or Azure managed equivalents) and pass the connection details as GitHub secrets.

## Prerequisites (one-time)

You need:

- An Azure subscription
- A PostgreSQL connection string (for the API)
- A Redis URL (for the market-data cache)
- Google OAuth credentials (Client ID + Client Secret)

### Important: register Azure Resource Providers (one-time per subscription)

Your workflow uses a GitHub Service Principal that is typically scoped to a Resource Group. That scope does not allow registering subscription-level resource providers.

Before running the workflow the first time, register these providers once (run with your own Azure user that has subscription permissions):

```powershell
az login
az account show

az provider register --namespace Microsoft.App --wait
az provider register --namespace Microsoft.OperationalInsights --wait
az provider register --namespace Microsoft.ContainerRegistry --wait
```

Portal alternative:

- Azure Portal -> Subscriptions -> (your subscription) -> Resource providers -> search and Register the same namespaces.

## Step 1 - Configure the workflow file

This repo includes:

- `.github/workflows/ci.yml` (CI for pull requests)
- `.github/workflows/cd.yml`

CI runs on `pull_request` only (and manual dispatch), so you get fast feedback without re-running again after merge.
CD runs on push to `main`, so merging a PR triggers deployment.

Open that file and edit the `env:` block at the top:

- `AZURE_LOCATION`: Sydney example: `australiaeast`
- `AZURE_RESOURCE_GROUP`: example `wealthtracker-rg`
- `AZURE_CONTAINERAPPS_ENV`: example `wealthtracker-env`
- `AZURE_ACR_NAME`: must be globally unique and alphanumeric only (no hyphens)
  - Example: `wealthtrackeracr7392`

Tip: if your first run fails with "registry name is not available", change `AZURE_ACR_NAME` and rerun.

## Step 2 - Create Azure credentials for GitHub Actions

GitHub Actions must authenticate to Azure. A straightforward approach is an Azure Service Principal stored as a GitHub secret named `AZURE_CREDENTIALS`.

Run this locally (PowerShell) after `az login`:

```powershell
# Choose region (Sydney)
$RG="wealthtracker-rg"
$LOC="australiaeast"
az group create -n $RG -l $LOC

# Create a Service Principal scoped to the resource group.
# This prints a JSON payload that GitHub Actions can use.
$SUB_ID = (az account show --query id -o tsv)
$SCOPE = "/subscriptions/$SUB_ID/resourceGroups/$RG"

az ad sp create-for-rbac `
  --name "wealthtracker-github-actions" `
  --role "Contributor" `
  --scopes $SCOPE `
  --sdk-auth
```

What this does:

- Creates a "robot identity" (Service Principal) for automation.
- Grants it Contributor access to your Resource Group so the workflow can create/update ACR and Container Apps.
- Outputs a JSON blob that the `azure/login` action can consume.

## Step 3 - Add GitHub repository secrets

In your GitHub repo:

`Settings` -> `Secrets and variables` -> `Actions` -> `New repository secret`

Add these secrets (names must match exactly):

### Azure auth

- `AZURE_CREDENTIALS`: paste the full JSON output from Step 2.

### Database (API)

- `NEON_CONNECTION_STRING`: your PostgreSQL connection string.

### Redis (market-data cache)

- `UPSTASH_REDIS_URL`: example `rediss://default:...@....upstash.io:6379`

Optional (only if you use Upstash REST mode):

- `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL`
- `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN`

Optional:

- `CACHE_TTL_SECONDS` (default is 300)

### Google OAuth

- `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`
- `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`

### JWT signing keys (required)

The backend requires an RSA key pair for JWT signing.

Important:

- These secrets must be the **PEM file contents**, not a file path.
  - Good: starts with `-----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----` / `-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----`
  - Bad: `/app/keys/public.pem`
- For GitHub secrets, store them as a single line using literal `\n` sequences (so YAML/env handling is reliable).

Generate keys:

```powershell
mkdir -Force .\\tmp-keys | Out-Null
cd .\\tmp-keys

openssl genpkey -algorithm RSA -out private.pem -pkeyopt rsa_keygen_bits:2048
openssl rsa -pubout -in private.pem -out public.pem
```

Convert PEM to a one-line string with `\n`:

```powershell
$private = Get-Content .\\private.pem -Raw
$public  = Get-Content .\\public.pem -Raw

$privateOneLine = ($private -replace \"`r?`n\", \"\\\\n\").Trim()
$publicOneLine  = ($public  -replace \"`r?`n\", \"\\\\n\").Trim()

$privateOneLine | Set-Clipboard
# Paste clipboard into GitHub secret JWT_PRIVATE_KEY_PEM

$publicOneLine | Set-Clipboard
# Paste clipboard into GitHub secret JWT_PUBLIC_KEY_PEM
```

Add secrets:

- `JWT_PRIVATE_KEY_PEM`
- `JWT_PUBLIC_KEY_PEM`

## Step 4 - Run the workflow

The workflow triggers on:

- Push to `main`
- Manual run: GitHub -> `Actions` -> `Deploy to Azure Container Apps` -> `Run workflow`

On first run it will:

1. Create/ensure Resource Group, ACR, and Container Apps Environment
2. Build and push images for:
   - `WealthTrackerServer/Dockerfile`
   - `WealthTrackerClient/Dockerfile`
   - `MarketDataService/Dockerfile`
3. Create (or update) the 3 Container Apps
4. Print final URLs at the end of the job logs:
   - `Web: https://<your-web-fqdn>`
   - `API: https://<your-api-fqdn>`

## Step 5 - Configure Google OAuth redirect URIs

After the first successful run you will have the web URL:

- `https://wealthtracker-web.<hash>.australiaeast.azurecontainerapps.io`

In Google Cloud Console -> Credentials -> your OAuth client, add:

Authorized JavaScript origins:

- `https://<YOUR_WEB_FQDN>`

Authorized redirect URIs:

- `https://<YOUR_WEB_FQDN>/auth/callback`

Why this step exists:

- Google will only redirect to URLs you explicitly allow.
- Your Container App URL exists only after the first deployment.

## Step 6 - Verify

Open the web UI:

- `https://<YOUR_WEB_FQDN>`

Optional API check:

```bash
curl -X POST "https://<YOUR_API_FQDN>/api/scanner/day-gainers" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"universeLimit":10,"limit":5}'
```

## Troubleshooting and debugging

This section captures the common failure modes we hit while getting this pipeline stable.

### (1) Provider registration / AuthorizationFailed

Symptom (GitHub Actions or local `az`):

- `AuthorizationFailed ... does not have authorization to perform action 'Microsoft.App/register/action'`

Cause:

- Provider registration is subscription-scoped. If your GitHub Service Principal is scoped only to a Resource Group (recommended), it cannot register providers.

Fix (run once with a subscription-level privileged account):

```powershell
az login
az provider register --namespace Microsoft.App --wait
az provider register --namespace Microsoft.OperationalInsights --wait
az provider register --namespace Microsoft.ContainerRegistry --wait
```

Check status:

```powershell
az provider show --namespace Microsoft.App --query registrationState -o tsv
```

### (2) `containerapp` extension preview warnings

Symptom:

- Warnings that `containerapp` is preview / no stable version.

Notes:

- This is expected today; ACA CLI support lives in the `containerapp` extension.
- The workflow installs/upgrades it with preview allowed.

### (3) `az containerapp update` argument errors (create vs update flags)

Symptoms:

- `ERROR: unrecognized arguments: --env-vars ...`
- `ERROR: unrecognized arguments: --environment ... --ingress ... --target-port ...`

Cause:

- `az containerapp create` and `az containerapp update` do not accept the same flags.

Rule of thumb:

- Use `--env-vars` with `az containerapp create`
- Use `--set-env-vars` with `az containerapp update`
- Flags like `--environment`, `--ingress`, `--target-port`, `--registry-server` belong to `create` (not `update`)

### (4) Revision suffix collision on reruns

Symptom:

- `template.revisionsuffix is invalid ... revision with suffix <xxx> already exists`

Cause:

- A revision suffix must be unique for that app. Re-running the workflow for the same commit SHA can collide if you force a fixed suffix every time.

Fix:

- Only set `--revision-suffix` on first-time `create`, and do not force it on `update` (current workflow behavior).

### Inspect revision status directly

```powershell
az containerapp revision list -g $RG -n $APP -o table
```

### Temporarily force a replica to exist (then stream logs)

```powershell
az containerapp update -g $RG -n $APP --min-replicas 1
az containerapp logs show -g $RG -n $APP --type system --follow --tail 300
```

### (5) API crashes: JWT PEM format error

Symptom (container log):

- `System.ArgumentException: No supported key formats were found ... ImportPem(...)`

Cause:

- `JWT_PUBLIC_KEY_PEM` / `JWT_PRIVATE_KEY_PEM` are not valid PEM content.
  - Common mistake: putting a file path like `/app/keys/public.pem` into the secret.
  - Another mistake: broken multi-line copying.

Fix:

- Store the actual PEM contents in GitHub secrets.
- Recommended: store them in one line with literal `\n` sequences (see Step 3).

### (6) API crashes during migrations: database TLS / connection string mismatch

Symptom (container log):

- Stack trace around `SslStream.AuthenticateAsClient(...)` / `NpgsqlConnector.NegotiateEncryption(...)`
- Crash happens at `db.Database.Migrate()` (because `MIGRATE_ON_STARTUP=1`)

Cause:

- The connection string is too strict for your runtime environment (for example `SSL Mode=VerifyFull` and/or `Channel Binding=Require`), or it’s not the correct Neon “pooled” host for server environments.

Recommended connection string shape for ACA:

- Prefer `SSL Mode=Require` (not `VerifyFull`)
- Remove `Channel Binding=Require` unless you know you need it

Example (shape only):

```
Host=<pooled-host>;Port=5432;Database=<db>;Username=<user>;Password=<pwd>;SSL Mode=Require;Trust Server Certificate=false
```

Emergency debugging tip:

- Set `MIGRATE_ON_STARTUP=0` temporarily so the API can start, then fix DB connectivity/migrations without crash loops.

### (7) Scanner endpoints sometimes slow / intermittent market-data call failures

Symptoms:

- First scanner call after some idle time is slow.
- Occasional stack traces around `HttpClient.SendAsync(...)` / `MarketDataClient.PostAsync(...)`, but later calls succeed.

Common causes:

- `wealthtracker-market-data` is set to scale-to-zero, so the first request may include cold start time.
- Yahoo Finance calls (via `yfinance`) can be slow, especially on cache misses.
- API-to-market-data timeout is too low (default is 15 seconds).

Recommended fixes:

- Increase API -> market-data timeout in Container Apps:
  - Set `MarketDataService__TimeoutSeconds=60` on `wealthtracker-api` (the GitHub Actions workflow sets this).
- Keep `CACHE_TTL_SECONDS=300` so most scans are served from Redis cache.
- If you want consistently low latency (higher cost), set `minReplicas=1` for `wealthtracker-market-data`.

### (8) Google OAuth redirect URI issues

Symptoms:

- Google login fails with redirect mismatch.

Causes:

- Redirect URIs in Google Cloud Console don’t match `https://<YOUR_WEB_FQDN>/auth/callback`.
- The workflow failed before the “Finalize URLs” step, so the placeholder redirect URI was not replaced.

Fix:

- After the first successful deploy, add:
  - Authorized origins: `https://<YOUR_WEB_FQDN>`
  - Redirect URI: `https://<YOUR_WEB_FQDN>/auth/callback`
- If the workflow previously failed mid-run, rerun it to ensure the final URLs are applied.

## Notes

- Web runtime config is injected at container start (Nginx template + `env.js`):
  - `WealthTrackerClient/docker-entrypoint.d/20-generate-env-js.sh`
- API talks to market-data via internal DNS:
  - `MarketDataService__BaseUrl=http://wealthtracker-market-data`

## References

- Microsoft Learn: GitHub Actions for Azure Container Apps
  - https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-apps/github-actions
- Marketplace action: Azure Container Apps Build and Deploy
  - https://github.com/marketplace/actions/azure-container-apps-build-and-deploy
- Existing manual guide
  - `docs/AzureContainerAppsDeployment.md`
